Companies may develop a set of similar software variants, even though they do not necessarily have a Software Product Line (SPL). They start constructing, marketing and selling individual products, which they then modify, customize and extend for different customers. To exploit existing software variants and build a software product line (SPL), a feature model of this SPL must be built as a first step. To do so, it is necessary to extract optional and mandatory features in addition to associate each feature with its name. In our previous work, we extract a set of feature implementations as a set of source code elements from software product variants and associate each feature with its name. Feature Models (FMs) are a standard formalism for modelling and reasoning about commonality and variability of a system. FMs aim to define a set of valid combinations of features, also called configurations. In this paper, we propose a new approach to reverse engineering FMs from software variant configurations based on formal concept analysis. The novelty of our approach, i) we propose a full automatic approach to extract advanced FM. ii) our approach accepts as input different software artifacts (e.g., product feature sets or configurations, use-case diagrams, product descriptions, etc.). These software artifacts represented by a tabular data that express its configurations. We analyzed 11 representative case studies of different characteristics and complexity. To validate our approach, we applied it on several case studies. The results of this evaluation showed that the extracted FMs exactly represent the original feature models with its constraints.

ra'fat al-msie'deen